==Command description==
This operation will create a media dump from real media using a physical device. It will retry errors and when finished create an XML metadata sidecar. The dumping operation can be interrupted and continued later, even with a different device.

==Command usage==
<code>Aaru -d [true/false] -v [true/false] media dump -h [true/false] -e <encoding> -f [true/false] -k <sectors> --first-pregap [true/false] --fix-offset [true/false] -m [true/false] --metadata [true/false] --trim [true/false] -O <options> --persistent [true/false] -p <passes> -s [true/false] -t <plugin> -x <xml sidecar> --subchannel <subchannel> --speed <speed> <device-path> <output-path></code>

<code>-d, --debug [true/false]</code> shows debug output ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-v, --verbose [true/false]</code> shows verbose output ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-h, --help [true/false]</code> shows help screen for the command instead of running it, ignores all other switches ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-e, --encoding <encoding></code> specifies character encoding to use when creating dump sidecar<br />
<code>-f, --force [true/false]</code> continues dumping whatever happens ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-k, --skip <sectors></code> skips this many sectors when an unreadable sector is found ''(default 512)''<br />
<code>--first-pregap [true/false]</code> tries to dump first track pregap. Only applicable to CD, DDCD or GD media ''(default false)''<br />
<code>--fix-offset [true/false]</code> fixes audio tracks offset. Only applicable to CD or GD media. ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-m, --resume [true/false]</code> creates and/or use resume mapfile ''(default true)''<br />
<code>--metadata [true/false]</code> enables creating CICM XML sidecar ''(default true)''<br />
<code>--trim [true/false]</code> enables trimming errores from skipped sectors ''(default true)''<br />
<code>-O, --options <options></code> specifies comma separated name=value pairs of options to pass to output image plugin<br />
<code>--persistent [true/false]</code> tries to recover partial or incorrect data ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-p, --retry-passes <passes></code> specifies how many times to retry reading a sector ''(default 5)''<br />
<code>-s, --stop-on-error [true/false]</code> stops dumping on first error ''(default false)''<br />
<code>-t, --format <plugin></code> specifies format for the output image, as plugin name or plugin id. If not present, will try to detect it from output image extension<br/>
<code>-x, --cicm-xml <xml sidecar></code> takes metadata from existing CICM XML sidecar<br />
<code>--subchannel <subchannel></code> specifies which subchannel to dump. Only applicable to CD/GD. Values: any, rw, rw-or-pq, pq, none ''(default any)''<br />
<code>--speed <speed></code> specifies at what speed to dump. Only applicable to optical drives, 0 for maximum ''(default 0)''<br />

==Example==
FreeBSD: <code>Aaru media dump -f --persistent true --separate-subchannel /dev/cd0 mydisc.cue</code><br />
Linux: <code>Aaru media dump -r -f -p 15 /dev/sdb myusbfloppy.img</code><br />
Windows: <code>Aaru media dump -f -p 0 --resume false \\.\PhysicalDrive3 mydisk.dicf</code><br />

==Operating system support==
{|
! Device type
! FreeBSD
! macOS
! Linux
! Windows
|-
| SCSI Block device
| Yes
| No <ref name="macOS permissions">macOS only allows talking with MultiMedia devices</ref>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| SCSI MultiMedia device
| Yes
| Not yet <ref name="macOS users">Support for MultiMedia devices in macOS will be added if users require it</ref>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| SCSI Streaming device
| Yes
| No <ref name="macOS permissions"/>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Parallel ATA
| No <ref name="FreeBSD bug">Not supported due to upstream bug</ref>
| No <ref name="macOS permissions"/>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| Serial ATA
| Yes
| No <ref name="macOS permissions"/>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| USB
| Partial <ref name="usb">USB descriptors are not retrieved</ref>
| Partial <ref name="macOS">Only MultiMedia devices can be supported and descriptors will not be retrieved</ref>
| Yes
| Yes
|-
| FireWire
| Partial <ref name="firewire">FireWire descriptors are not retrieved</ref>
| Partial <ref name="macOS"/>
| Yes
| Partial <ref name="firewire">FireWire descriptors are not retrieved</ref>
|-
| PCMCIA
| Partial <ref name="pcmcia">PCMCIA CIS is not retrieved</ref>
| Partial <ref name="macOS"/>
| Yes
| Partial <ref name="pcmcia">PCMCIA CIS is not retrieved</ref>
|-
| SecureDigital / MultiMediaCard
| Not yet <ref name="FreeBSD sd">Support will come with FreeBSD 12-RELEASE</ref>
| No <ref name="macOS permissions"/>
| Yes
| Untested <ref name="Windows sd">Should work, untested due to not available hardware</ref>
|}

<references/>
